Act I
Setting: at landlord’s home
Landlord: There are three tasks today: one is chopping wood, and ……
Farmer: I choose that !!! I am gonna to chop wood.
Landlord (laugh loudly): OK, we just need more guys like you ! Let’s go on then:  other tasks are carrying water and grazing.
Son (unhappy): Dad, how can you choose so quickly?
You can just wait for him until finishing his speaking and it is not late to make a decision at that time.
Farmer: No, son, you are completely wrong !
If I don’t decide quickly, maybe I will not be able to chop wood .
Son: But in fact, chopping wood is the most difficult task compared with the rest of tasks !
Farmer: Well, at the very start, you don’t know what the next task is. Maybe easier, maybe harder. So if I don’t choose first, there may be more difficult tasks waiting for me.
Son: But this time you failed, right?
Farmer: Obviously, fortune will not always stand by your side. But I think this way of thinking is right.
Son: OK, I know what you means.

Act II
Setting: near the river
voice-over: The farmer and his son went to chop wood.When they were chopping, suddenly, the axe flew into the river.
farmer: Oh, damn. Let’s go to the riverside!(angry and unbelievable)
Son: Dad, I hear some voice came from the river.(surprised)
God: Who dares to throw things everywhere and disturbs my nap?(impatient)
Farmer: Oh, god! It’s all my fault. I dropped the axe when I was chopping wood. I feel so sorry for bothering you. God bless me, please give back my axe.(terrified)
God: Which one is yours? Gold or silver?
Farmer: Actually, I ……
(the son take the farmer aside)
Son: Dad, it is a wonderful opportunity for us to make a fortune !
Farmer said to his son: Neither of them are mine. Mine is iron. I must tell the truth.
Son: Why? Why not choose the gold ome? The iron one is valueless at all.
Farmer: How can I lie to the god? It’s totally a wrong decision.

(standard ending -simplified edition)
Son: Dad, you see. The golden axe can help us get rid of poverty.
Thus,we don’t have to work for the landlord anymore.We can do anything we want,and can even be the landlord ourselves.
Don’t hesitate, come on, daddy, just do it!
Farmer: I don’t think so.Those who lie to others and hope to get money without hard work won't have a happy ending.
I sincerely hope you can consider twice,my dear.
[I can’t make this stupid decision. Only right choice can give me no burden.]
(farmer turn around)
Farmer: Dear God, I dropped an iron axe.
God: Wow! I will bless you guys. You've made the right decision.Honesty is the most important quality in the world.
I will reward you both the gold and silver axe.

If someone stopped to choose the gold axe. God could do anything to punish him.
Maybe no one will choose silver axe I guess.
